Tags: The Royan Empire
Date: 10 April 2025
series:the royan empire

# The Royan Empire VI

The expeditioners awake to a new day in Kuljak. **Edwina** and **Maddox** head to The Royan Archival House to gather three facts. 1. What does 'Alanhoran' mean. 2. What does 'Ayatsuka' mean. 3. Does what the stranger said about Monkeys have any historical weight. **Edwina** decides to research hidden tunnels under Kuljak, trying to figure out how Gaian can just walk in. She does not find anything about tunnels, but she does find extensive reports on The Temple of Terror from early in Kuljaks founding (about 50 years ago). Getting in is impossible, even digging around the door finds an impenetrable wall of solid silver.

While they are out, a newcomer arrives at The Expedition Hall. He is four feet tall, names **Panowin Platinumpocket** and appears to have navigated here almost on accident. He scans the bar and recognises **Prold.** The gnome produces a stack of documents and lays out, in extreme bureaucratic detail, an incident of "disorderly conduct" which occured between Prolds grandfather and a now forgotten Royan noble at the time the Cholco tribe first came into contact with Royan. As per the terms of the document, and some serious legal footwork, **Prold** is now indebted to serve **Panowin** until some such date as his debt is relieved, pending completion of services rendered. The gnome has come with the goal of collecting taxes from several Gaian who snuck into the capital Shahar Azuran. He seems more focused on a few royals than the fact that Gaian should never have been able to penetrate the city.

On their way home, **Maddox** and **Edwina** find **Zornān** collapsed on the street, bruised in the face and thoroughly passed out. When roused, he explains that he got into a fight with a man who accused him of being Gaian. The pair also learn that **Zornān** has been drinking for the entirety of the three weeks they have been working. They bring him back to the expedition hall and end up scouring the map for clues (while enjoying a mug or five of ale).

**Zornān** doesn't know the Gaian around here, but he can make inferences. If the expeditioners found Gaian in a tree not far from Kuljak (already strange, Gaian don't venture near royan settlements) then they must have a larger force somewhere nearby in the forest. The expeditioners set forth with the goal of finding sign of these Gaian, and investigating the monkey etched haphazardly into the map on the table. The bring **Zornān** along, to keep him out of trouble.

Two days north up the trail they realise they are beginning to travel east, which means they have travelled much further than they realise. **Millicent** boldly strides off east, her half-memory of the map in Kuljak informing her that the monkey should be somewhere around here. There is a brief altercation between the expeditioners and a pack of Tasloi who have set up trip-snares. The source of the uncharacteristic effectiveness of their traps is revealed to be a Gaian ally, who dies to **Panowins** arrow as she tries to flee.

The expeditioners continue east and, the next day, survey the area. They find a loose trail heading north and south. Following south, the trail terminates in the statue of a monkey covering it's eyes and pointing to the northwest, recalling **Bolov Grondys** cryptic words: "blind monkeys know many things."

The trail north meets with another trail heading west or northeast. The expeditioners follow the trail northeast and come across the southern edge of the Kulurātil. **Millicent** and **Prold** take the opportunity to bathe, but Millicent feels a disturbance in the water. She snatches the figure out of the water, which turns out to be a Lizardfolk. When released, it is joined by three of its friends, who seem to be more curious (though their lizard expressions are inscrutable). The expeditioners and the lizardman cannot speak each others language, and a small game of charades ensues. When the lizardfolk hear **Prold** speak, they might not understand the words, but the recognise the sounds or orcish. They emerge onto the riverbank and present goods from their fish skin bags. The lizards have come to trade.

### Hexes Explored: 6 (4 new)
