date:14 June 2026
series:riddle of steel

# The Riddle of Steel XVII

Before The Book retire for the night, **Shin** informs them of his requirement that they swear their loyalty to him. Until they do, they are not free to go. **The Fiend** declares his loyalty instantly, but the rest of the book take more time to decide.

Huddled in a corner of the sleeping area, The Book have a, now all too common, tense discussion about how to handle the situation. They decide that staying near **Shin** and figuring out more about the land they inhabit is more important than returning to the admiral. They use their message in a bottle to send a message to **Bunsen**, trusting the admiral to act well with the information. **Ganent** entrusts his map to the bottle, such that the battle-ready **Shin** cannot find the location of the weaker camp even if he forced it from The Book.

As **Shin** doesn't awake until evening, The Book spend the next day confined in the camp. **Ganent** investigates the church more closely, revealing more of the mural on the ground. Red, yellow and blue worms coalesce around the window. He also has an encounter with **Hyla**, a woman who argues against **Father Lemmin** against the church. **The Gelid** inquires with **Big Gob** about the locations of the map. He doesn't know much, but does know that **June** found a nearby landmark. 

At dinner, both **Hyla** and **June** (who are sibings!) meet the book. As **Ganent** and **Hyla** share a similar religious experience (visions of flying), **June** reveals that the 'drum' he found seems to have some connection to what he describes as a kind of 'guardian' presence.

As **Shin** and **Chochu** enter, **Ganent**s *Brilliant feather, dragon fire; Ever burning eyes of ire* detects a magical presence emanating from the rings of the camp leaders. An idea is formed that **Chochu** speaks to **Shin** in secret, using sorcery. The Book pledge their loyalty to **Shin** and earn their freedom, then talk of the second expedition. **Ganent** is careful not to reveal their location and tries to get **Shin** to acknowledge that war is the bad path. This fails, but **Shin** promises that he will let the second expedition be subsumed into his kingdom of New Loribel. The Book aren't so sure the admiral will see his vision.

After another sleep, The Book are allowed to venture out into the world. Starting a new map, they follow **June** to the drum. The construction only barely resembles the instrument, being many times larger than is traditional. The stone faces are covered in vines and moss, but careful scraping uncovers a series of etched murals. In sequence, they depict many creatures - recognised as wing-less worm-like dragons - cavorting and engaging in normal activities. As the drawings go on the dragons become fewer. By the final few tablets there are humanoid figures on a mountain. The Book aren't sure what these murals portend, but it seems deeply intertwined with the history of the land.

**Ganent** and **The Fiend** climb the drum and investigate the top. Under the growth of centuries they find a strange series of overlapping plates. The wizards seem to think it some kind of "apercher", which goes over **Ganents** head completely. **The Gelid** theorizes that the depictions of dragons may mean the drum will respond to the presence of such a beast. He presents his dragon scale and a shift is felt beneath the feet of the pair atop the drum. **Ganent** produces a silver whispery hair retrieved from the wound of the dragon corpse. The hair floats out of his hand and forms a ring around the center of the drumtop, which promptly opens so fast that none of the wizards have time to react before **Ganent** and **The Fiend** plummet into unknown depths below.
