date:22 March 2026
series:riddle of steel

# The Riddle of Steel VIII

The Book ascend the stairs and find themselves on a rocky plateau. A gigantic boulder sits precariously close to a ledge. Far below, a gigantic cyclops sleeps peacefully. While The Book and The Burners debate what to do, **Crow** scouts up another set of stairs. He passes through some sort of magical sound barrier and is suddenly assaulted by a cacophony of snarling and shouting. From his rocky ledge overhang he observes the fish mens camp! They are gathering weapons, swimming out to sea with some sort of purpose. An attack no doubt, but they aren't swimming in the direction of the cave.

Their decision made, The Book and The Burners heave with all their might and splat the cyclops' head with the boudler. This invokes the ire of the fish men who rush outside to see the scene. Realising what has happened, they start making their way up, but The Book has long since fled up the staircase.

The staircase takes them to a narrow walkway hugging the edge of The Sword. **The Enmity** leads their single file up the wailing precipice. His position proves a dangerous one as his fit falls right through the stone - an illusion! **Horang** fails to catch his arm, but **Crows** thorn-whip catches him by the leg. It hurts, but it's better than falling to death. Now the chasm before them is 20' across. **Horang** makes the jump with the aid of the similarly-named spell and fastens a rope on the otherside. The Book take their time crawling across it - too much time. The fish men have arrived!

**Bunsen** holds a Thunderwave while **The Fiends** fog cloud sends several fishmen running off the cliff. **The Gelid** creates a sheet of ice that sends more fishmen to their doom. As they approahc, the thunderous blast of Thunderwave sends yet more fishmen falling onto the sharp rocks. The rest are cut up by Bunsens Burners. All party members arrive safely on the other side of the cliff, only to find a secret passage that would have let the mall pass safely and swiftly.

Higher and higher up The Sword they climb. They come across a garden growing plants that normally only survive underwater, but there is little time for investigation. At last they reach the summit. A flat section of rock clings to the swords tip. Three makeshift huts are constructed of driftwood and kelp. Further on, the sounds of cackling and bubbling can be heard.

Ignoring the huts for now, The Book sneak towards what they believe is the ocean master. The ocean master proves to be the ocean masters - three hags! Each stand next to a brazier of magical green flame that appears to be empowering them with some vitality. They chant around a bubbling cauldron of human soup. The Book leaps into action!

The Hags are terribly fearsome spellcasters, made more powerful by their coven. **The Crouton** scores an easy kill by plunging his snake tooth into the hags-eye wand recovered from the sea cave. One of the hags shrieks and clutches at her empty eye sockets, quickly falling afterwards. The other hags put up much more of a fight. **Bunsen**, **The Burn**, and **Horang** are struck with a lightning bolt while the cleric **Ganent** and **The Enmity** move forward to engage. They weather the hags' attacks while tipping their vitality braziers, rendering the hags vulnerable. **The Crow** looks towards the starts and channels their power, assuming a form of pure starlight. He harries the hags with stardust arrows. The second hag falls to a series of blows as she attempts to reposition.

Just as the fight is tipping towards the side of victory, a screech fills the air. The harpy matriarch, who previously escaped the boat, has arrived. He call lures **The Burn** and **Farley** close to the edge of the cliff. **The Gelid** attempts to trip them up with a sheet of ice, but it's not enough to save **Farley**, who plummets to his death. **The Burn** comes to his senses before meeting the same fate, but he is desperately wounded. **The Crow** throws out a healing word, but it is cruelly counterspelled by one of the hags. Despite The Books best efforts, the harpy matriarch descends on **The Burn**, slicing open his chest and ripping out his heart. His last look as it all turns black is of the flittering flame, burning violently in its brazier.

The hags injuries are nearing fatal, but allies continue to fall. **Horang** screams as her head is filled with frightning visions. They prove too much for her, and she falls to the ground, blood pouring from her eyes. **Bunsen** cries out in despair. The tide turning rapidly against them, **The Gelid** concocts a plan. He waits until the harpy matriarch swoops into the fray, then uses his ice powers to snap one of the legs of the couldron. The boiling liquid douses the harpy, who dies covered in burns, screeching. The last remaining hag redoubles her effort, refusing to see her sisters slain in vain. She does battle with **Ganent**, **Crow** and **Enmity** simultaneously. **Enmity** falls victim to the same phantasmal fright spell. He sees visions of his allies turning on him, ostracizing him. It is in this battle that **Crow** catches a fatal slash to his throat from the hags sharpened claws. After all he gave The Book, his dies under the stars he took comfort in.

It is at this moment that dawn peaks its head over the horizon. Bright red brilliance bathes the battlefield in golden light. Despite all that has been lost, a presence brings hope - the hope of a second chance and a new beginning. This hope is felt most strongly in **Ganent**, who attributes it to a divine presence. He slashes at the hag with his sword, Justice's Heart, cutting slash after slash across her form. The hag is finally put down by **???**, and silence once again descends upon the tower.

The Oceans masters have been defeated. But at what cost.
